Each page should always have one (and only one) h1 element, which is the main subject of your content. This and the other headings are used in part by search engines to understand the topic of the page.

Use CSS relative sizing instead of relying on the six headings

The heading should be such that they give semantic meaning to the context, and show the proper parent-child relationships of his sections. h2 followed by h5 would confuse a reader.

HTML5 introduced a number of new elements that give developers more options while also incorporating accessibility features. 
These tags include main, header, footer, nav, article, and section, among others.

The main element is used to wrap the main content, and there should be only one per page. It's meant to surround the information that's related to the central topic of your page. It's not meant to include items that repeat across pages, like navigation links or banners.

Article is a sectioning element, and is used to wrap independent, self-contained content. The tag works well with blog entries, forum posts, or news articles.

The section element is also new with HTML5, and has a slightly different semantic meaning than article. An article is for standalone content, and a section is for grouping thematically related content. They can be used within each other, as needed.

figure 
HTML5 introduced the figure element, along with the related figcaption. Used together, these items wrap a visual representation (like an image, diagram, or chart) along with its caption. This gives a two-fold accessibility boost by both semantically grouping related content, and providing a text alternative that explains the figure.

The label tag wraps the text for a specific form control item, usually the name or label for a choice. This ties meaning to the item and makes the form more readable.
The for attribute on a label tag explicitly associates that label with the form control and is used by screen readers.
The value of the for attribute must be the same as the value of the id attribute of the form control. 


The fieldset tag surrounds the entire grouping of radio buttons to achieve semantically showing choices are a part of a set. It often uses a legend tag to provide a description for the grouping, which is read by screen readers for each choice in the fieldset element.
Fieldset and legend are interesting mix, why have I never heard of them before?

Darker colors on the color wheel are considered to be blues, violets, magentas, and reds, whereas lighter colors are oranges, yellows, greens, and blue-greens.

Contrast ratio check = 4.5:1

HTML offers the accesskey attribute to specify a shortcut key to activate or bring focus to an element.
HTML5 allows this attribute to be used on any element, but it's particularly useful when it's used with interactive ones. This includes links, buttons, and form controls.

The HTML tabindex attribute has three distinct functions relating to an element's keyboard focus. When it's on a tag, it indicates that element can be focused on. The value (an integer that's positive, negative, or zero) determines the behavior.

Certain elements, such as links and form controls, automatically receive keyboard focus when a user tabs through a page.
It's in the same order as the elements come in the HTML source markup. 
A negative tabindex value (typically -1) indicates that an element is focusable, but is not reachable by the keyboard.

